This month’s theme is taken
from David’s poetic song to Jehovah
at Psalm 18:25, which states:
“With someone loyal you act in loyalty.”
The Hebrew term “act in loyalty”
reminds us
of God’s loyal love
—that is love motivated
by commitment,
integrity, loyalty,
and deep attachment.
So loyalty is more
than just a feeling;
it is active;
it’s rooted in love.
How comforting it is
to know that Jehovah
lovingly attaches himself
to those who are loyal to him!
But what motivated David
to write the words
at Psalm 18:25?
The superscription reveals
that it was composed
after “Jehovah rescued him
from the hand of all his enemies
and from the hand of Saul.”
Think of the great joy
and relief he must have felt
after experiencing firsthand
Jehovah’s loyal love
and mighty saving acts.
However, throughout his life,
David experienced
disloyalty at its worst:
from his king, Saul;
from his wife Michal;
from his trusted counselor Ahithophel;
and from his son Absalom.
He felt the deep hurt of betrayal
by those he trusted and loved most.
Loyalty is a choice.
What do we find when we look back
at David’s life?
David chose to stay loyal to God.
From a humble shepherd boy
caring for his sheep
to a valiant king
caring for the nation,
he proved
to be someone loyal,
a man agreeable
to Jehovah’s heart.
But it can be a real test
to maintain loyalty to God
when we face injustices.
Imagine the desperate situation
that David and his mighty warriors
experienced when they
were fugitives,
forced to hide in the wilderness,
often low on provisions.
They saw firsthand
King Saul’s jealous rage.
But what choice did David make
when urged by his men
to seize the opportunity
to take Saul’s life?
Notice what David told his men
at 1 Samuel 24:6:
“It is unthinkable
from Jehovah’s standpoint
“that I should do
such a thing to my lord,
“the anointed of Jehovah,
by lifting my hand against him,
for he is the anointed of Jehovah.”
David knew that if he remained loyal,
Jehovah would remain loyal to him
—He would show him loyal love.
He humbly put aside
his personal feelings
and viewed matters
from Jehovah’s perspective.
He chose to wait patiently
for Jehovah to “act in loyalty.”
We’ll soon be facing
life-changing events foretold in the Bible
that will test our loyalty
to Jehovah and his organization.
So now is the time
to strengthen our loyalty!
As we do, we can be sure
that Jehovah knows our circumstances
—perhaps injustices
we have experienced—
and will reward our loyal service.
So ask yourself, ‘What loyal actions
will motivate Jehovah to be loyal to me?’
Let’s consider three areas.
First, we can be loyal
to Jehovah by defending him.
But Jehovah is
the Sovereign of the universe.
How can we come to his defense?
We can learn how
from the fine example of Elihu!
In the book of Job,
Elihu listened patiently as Job
and his three false comforters spoke.
Notice Elihu’s reaction
at Job 32:2, 3:
“His anger blazed against Job
“for trying to prove himself
right rather than God.
“He was also very angry
with Job’s three companions
“because they could not find an answer
but had declared God wicked.”
A fire of righteous indignation
was burning inside young Elihu.
In Job 36:2, 3,
he loyally comes
to Jehovah’s defense saying:
“Be patient with me
a little longer while I explain,
“for I still have words
to speak on God’s behalf.
“I will speak comprehensively
about what I know,
and I will ascribe
righteousness to my Maker.”
Elihu courageously proved loyal
by praising,
and, yes, defending God.
Why do we need to come
to Jehovah’s defense today?
Because our loving heavenly Father
is blasphemed in so many ways.
False religions claim
that he’s part of a Trinity
and that he torments people
eternally in burning hell.
Others say that he
does not exist or if he does,
he doesn’t really care about us.
We know that such lies
come from Satan the Devil.
We demonstrate our loyalty
by speaking in defense of Jehovah,
thereby proving
Satan the liar that he is.
We boldly and zealously proclaim
that he does exist
as the almighty God;
and that he is
wise, just, and loving,
and that he will soon
bring an end to all evil
and reward his loyal ones
with eternal life.
Jehovah could make
the stones cry out in defense,
yet he honors his loyal Witnesses
—you and me—
with this fine privilege.
Second, we can be loyal
to Jehovah by being loyal
to “the faithful and discreet slave,”
the Governing Body.
Jehovah and Jesus are using
“the faithful and discreet slave”
to feed us spiritually,
so we owe our loyalty to that slave.
But some may say,
‘Isn’t the Governing Body
made up of imperfect men?’
Yes, it is.
The last perfect person to walk
the earth was Jesus himself.
There is no perfect person
or organization on the globe.
But as a long-time faithful brother
used to say,
“This is the best imperfect organization
on earth.”
Jesus didn’t say
the slave would be infallible.
He said it would be
faithful and discreet.
The way we listen to
and obey the faithful slave
has a direct bearing on the strength
of our friendship with God.
In fact, it means our very life.
But what if the Governing Body
serves some spiritual food
that is not to our liking?
Or what if we do not fully understand
or agree with a clarification of a belief?
On one occasion, Jesus’ followers,
including the apostle Peter,
were confronted
with a new teaching.
How did most react?
Notice John 6:60, it states:
“When they heard this,
many of his disciples said:
‘This speech is shocking;
who can listen to it?’”
The result?
Continuing in verse 66:
“Because of this,
many of his disciples
went off to the things behind
and would no longer walk with him.”
But how did Peter respond
when Jesus asked them,
‘Are you too stumbled?’
At John 6:68, we read:
“Simon Peter answered him:
‘Lord, whom shall we go away to?
You have sayings of everlasting life.’”
What loyalty!
Peter’s loyalty
was based on solid evidence
that Jesus was the Messiah.
His loyalty
was evidence of his faith.
That is the kind of loyalty
we want to imitate today.
There are times we must wait on
Jehovah to clarify matters.
In the meantime,
may we prove ourselves loyal like Peter
and follow closely
the lead of the faithful slave,
who closely follow
in the footsteps of their Master, Jesus.
At times, though, we receive
counsel that touches us personally.
For instance, on JW Broadcasting
we’ve received loving reminders
from members of the Governing Body
to be forgiving,
to honor Jehovah
with our valuable things,
and to remain spiritually alert.
Through The Watchtower
and at Christian meetings,
we’re reminded to be careful
about our dress and grooming,
to choose good associates
and wholesome entertainment,
and to remain morally clean.
Are we quick to respond
and make needed adjustments
or do we find ourselves wanting
to defend our personal rights?
A situation
in the apostle Paul’s life
tested his loyalty
to theocratic direction.
It’s found in Acts chapter 21.
As you recall,
Paul arrived in Jerusalem in 56 C.E.
after a very successful missionary tour.
You can imagine his excitement
as he related in detail
“the things God did among
the nations through his ministry.”
After hearing
Paul’s extraordinary account,
the older men revealed to Paul
a problem in Judea
that involved him personally.
Read what they said
at Acts 21:21:
“But they [the Jewish believers]
have heard it rumored about you
“that you have been teaching
all the Jews
“among the nations
an apostasy from Moses,
“telling them
not to circumcise their children
or to follow the customary practices.”
Well, perhaps Paul thought,
‘Me, an apostate?
‘Really?
How can they say such a thing?
‘I just finished
my third missionary tour,
and look how
Jehovah blessed the work!’
Nevertheless, the older men
gave Paul very clear direction
at Acts 21:23, 24
that he likely did not anticipate,
and there it reads:
“So do what we tell you:
“We have four men who have put
themselves under a vow.
“Take these men with you
and cleanse yourself
“ceremonially together with them
and take care of their expenses,
“so that they may have
their heads shaved.
“Then everyone will know
that there is nothing
“to the rumors
they were told about you,
but that you are walking orderly
and you are also keeping the Law.”
Was this the time
for Paul to question
their decision
or demand his rights?
He could have reasoned:
‘Didn’t you read my letter
to the Galatians,
‘where it says the Law was nailed
to the torture stake with Jesus?
‘I did nothing wrong!
‘Why do I have to put on
this pretense
just because a few
are overly sensitive?’
No.
He humbly did
as they requested,
although it
nearly cost him his life.
Yes, it meant swallowing his pride,
but Paul knew
there were bigger issues
involved than his personal rights.
He was considerate
of the consciences of others.
But more importantly,
he showed his loyalty to Jehovah
and to the governing body.
Do we see
the bigger issue in our life?
Let us be determined
to be humble,
flexible,
and obedient like Paul,
and thereby
prove ourselves faithful
to “the faithful and discreet slave.”
Third, we can be loyal to Jehovah
by being loyal to the elders.
We’ve discussed loyalty to Jehovah himself
and to the faithful slave,
but what about direction
we receive
from the elders
in our congregation?
We listen
to our elders give talks
and comments
at the meetings each week,
we work with them
in the ministry,
and we associate
with them.
This regular contact
gives us more opportunities
to see their imperfections
and flaws.
We could begin to focus
on their weaknesses,
weakening our trust
in God’s arrangement.
For example, if you zoom in
on any of our pictures
in our magazines,
all you’ll see are colored spots or pixels.
But when you zoom out,
you see a beautiful photo or painting.
Similarly, when looking at our elders,
don’t zoom in on their imperfections
—the spots of ink—
rather, see the big picture.
Why, then, is it so important
to strengthen our loyalty
to our hard-working, loving shepherds?
Because these “gifts in men”
are an expression
of Jehovah’s loyal love
as they loyally lead, feed,
and protect
his precious sheep.
As the great tribulation nears,
our survival will depend
on our readiness
to respond to their direction,
as they follow
the Governing Body’s direction.
Our loyalty is not to men,
but to Jehovah’s arrangement
made up of imperfect,
but loyal men.
That is a lesson
that Korah, Dathan,
and Abiram refused to learn.
In this clip from the video
Respect Jehovah’s Authority,
listen to Korah’s defiant attitude
toward Moses
as taken
from Numbers chapter 16.
There’s Moses.
That is enough of you
because the whole assembly
are all of them holy
and Jehovah is in their midst.
Why, then, should you lift yourselves up
above the congregation of Jehovah?
Korah and the others
made great pretenses of loyalty to God,
but completely ignored the fact
that Jehovah directly appointed
Moses and Aaron.
Who, then, were
they really murmuring against?
Notice Numbers 26:9:
“This Dathan and Abiram
were chosen ones of the assembly
“who fought against Moses
and Aaron along with Korah’s group
when they fought against Jehovah.”
While focusing on the man Moses
and his imperfections,
they did not really see that it was Jehovah
who was directing the nation.
They were actually fighting
against Jehovah.
Their disloyalty to God’s appointed men
cost them their lives.
But Korah’s sons
made a different choice.
In this next clip, notice an attitude
far different from their father’s.
My father and his companions
actually rebelled
against Jehovah’s authority.
Their envy, pride,
and ambition led to rebellion,
and in the end they brought
dishonor upon themselves.
My father sought glory,
but his glory was short-lived.
I’m glad, though, that my brothers
and I took the right side of the issue.
It must have been hard though.
Yes, it was.
But that helps us to understand
how important it is
that we do not allow
friendships or family
to take priority
over our relationship with Jehovah
and our obedience to him.
That’s what Father
has always told me.
Mmm, yes.
Ultimately, successful direction
for us humans
comes from Jehovah.
We should completely trust
in his choices of appointed ones.
You see, respect for those
whom Jehovah has appointed
shows respect
for Jehovah’s authority.
The loyalty displayed by Korah’s sons
moved Jehovah to act
in loyalty by sparing their lives.
What fine examples
for us to imitate!
May we never find ourselves
fighting against Jehovah
by murmuring
or complaining against those
who he has appointed
to lead his people today.
To see more
of the good and the bad examples
of loyalty
among the Israelites,
we encourage you to watch the entire
Respect Jehovah’s Authority video
on JW Broadcasting.
In review, how can we show
our loyalty to Jehovah?
First, by coming to his defense
as his Witnesses.
Second, by maintaining our loyal support
of “the faithful and discreet slave.”
And third, by loyally following direction
from the appointed elders.
As you imitate faithful examples
like the sons of Korah,
like David, Peter, and Paul,
you will prove to be someone
Jehovah views as loyal
—worthy of receiving
his acts of loyalty forever.